Try and welcome to this video we're going to dig now into the constructor's that we have for decimals
and we'll look at it also in context of context no pun intended there.
All right.
So to construct the decimal objects we're going to use the decimal class in the decimal module.
So we would do something like this maybe from decimal import decimal of a capital D.
That's the class decimal of a lower case D is the.
Import decimals simply because sometimes I also want to work the context.
And so I do both imports.
You could technically when you want to refer to the decimal class say decimal dot decimal but I don't
want to do that so I'd use both imports really just for simplicity sake.
So the constructor just takes a single parameter x so decimal X and X can be a variety of data types.
It can be an integer.
So you could say something like Avril's decimal 10 and it will give you 10.
Basically it'll store 10.
You can also use other decimal objects obviously.
You can also use strings just like we had with floats or integers and so you can say Akos decimal strings
0 count 1 and you get 0.1 as your number and it will be stored exactly as 0.1 unlike floats.
You could also use a tuple.
And here's an example of it.
Now this Poppel will generate this number here.
Negative three point 1 4 1 5.
And the next slide will go over.
You know how this works exactly.
But there is this second mechanism as well.
Now what about using floats.
Can we just pass in a float to the decimal.
And the answer is yes but you don't usually do it right.
The problem here is that if we say decimal 0.1 Well what is 0.1.
That's a float literal.
What is the value of 0.1.
It's not exactly 0.1 it's 0.1 0 0 0 and then some digits by 5.
Something that comes after that.
And the problem is that decimal is going to receive that number.
It's not going to receive 0.1 precisely it's going to receive that approximation and it's going to do
its job and stole that number exactly.
So it will actually store exactly 1 0 0 0 5 5 5 1.
It's not going to store 0.1.
So it's kind of useless using a float in this case right.
It's not going to achieve what we want.
So we don't use them in general.
Instead we use strings or topples.
So creating a decimal object is a little harder than using a you know creating a float because now we
have to use this string right over the top.
So let's look at the top of constructor and first thing we're going to look at is let's just look at
numbers and let's just decompose them a little bit and rewrite them.
So one point two three can be written as positive 123 times 10 to the negative two.
Right.
So we basically get rid of the decimal point which means we have a 123.
So we have to multiply by 10 to the negative 2 to actually position the decimal point where we want
and we have a positive number.
If we look at negative 1.2 3 Well it's the same except we have negative 123 times 10 to the negative
2.
So let's take a look at this expression.
So we have a sign right.
We have this positive or negative sign.
We have the digits that make up the number that we're interested in.
Right.
And you'll notice this looks now like an integer.
And so maybe you start getting some idea of how the numbers are stored in the digits are objects in
the decimal objects.
I should say and then we have the exponent that's negative 2 over here.
So those are the three pieces that we need.
We need a sign.
We need the digits which is an integer.
Right 123.
And we need the exponent which is also an integer negative 2.
So the way we can look at this is to say well we have a table that contains X where X is the sign and
S is an integer which is defined this way.
We've seen this before.
When we look at the binary float expansions and the decimal expansions for real numbers we define S
as 0.
If that number is non negative.
Now if it's 0 0 positive we pass in zero.
If the number is negative we'd pass in a 1 so 1 here means it's a negative number.
Otherwise it's zero.
The digits are passed not as an integer but as a tuple of digits.
So D1 D2 D3 which in this case would be 1 comet to come at 3 and then we pass the exponent as the last
element of the topple which is negative 2 in this case.
So let's take a look at an example.
Let's say we want to represent negative three point 1 4 1 5 and we want to you know use the top all
to generate the decimal.
While it would be the top of here one would be the sign because it's negative.
The digits are 3 1 4 1 5.
But of course in order to make sure we have the decimal point at the correct location we have to pass
in negative for right minus one minus two minus three minus four.
This is where we have the decimal point.
It really just means that we multiply 3 1 4 1 5 times 10 to the negative for so now if we create the
decimal this way equals decimal of that apple then it will actually still negative three point 1 4 1
5.
So that's how we use the top all you can of course also use just a string to do that.
But depending on what you're doing and how you're generating those numbers maybe it's easier using a
couple that's getting generated in code for some reason it might be easier to do using literals inside
your code.
You're going to use strings you're not going to use them to topple in-general.
So now let's talk about context precision and the constructor and how they affect or in this case don't
affect each other in the context precision affects the mathematical operations.
It does not affect the constructor.
So the constructor and the number of digits that you have when you're creating your decimal numbers
are not affected by the precision of the context here.
Global or local So let's take a look at an example.
Let's say we do our import and we set our global context to a precision of two.
Now if we do a decimal zero point 0.1 2 3 4 5 what is actually getting stoned.
Zero Point 1 2 3 4 5.
It is not being limited by the precision of the context that's really important to understand that it's
the same thing if we go with B then B will be exactly 0 1 1 2 3 4 5 again where we do have a difference
is that if we say sequels A plus B.
Now we have our arithmetic a mathematical operation where we're adding A and B together then C right.
Well a plus b if we were to do the full thing would be zero point 2 4 6 9 k 2 4 6 9 0 if you want to
add in that five plus five is 10 right.
That's what the real sum is.
But we're working in a context that has a precision of two.
So C will actually be zero point to five and we'll get rounded to two decimal to two digits after the
decimal point.
That's because our context has a precision of two.
So again the precision of the context does not affect the storage or the creation of the decimal objects
but it does affect what happens during calculations right.
That's the only time that that precision matters to us here.
So the same thing also of local versus global context but the one thing I want to point out.
So let's say we have our usual imports.
Let's say we set our global context precision to six and we create our two numbers a and b and let's
say we print a plus b while it's going to print 0 point 2 4 6 9 0.
Right.
We kept a precision of six and we have exactly that.
So that's all well and fine.
Now let's say that we create a local context.
Right.
We're using with with statement with the context manager.
And for that local context we set the precision to.
And now we add those two numbers a and b.
Right we add them and put them into the variable c and we print out because we are working with a precision
of two.
The result is zero point to five right.
So we've seen that before that hasn't changed.
The thing is that because we're in a local context and within this with block it is using the precision
of two.
Now if we leave once we exit out of this with block if we print C again.
So now within our main program.
So now we're back to using the global context there is no local context here.
What is c is c 0.25 or a C zero point 2 4 6 9 0 while it's toward zero point to 5.
There's no magic here right.
Seegar created as a decimal zero point to five you know.
And that's because we limited the precision to.
During the calculations when we exit out and we go back to a higher precision context.
While it's full 0.35 there's no magic here it's not going to suddenly realize like oh wait a minute
it really was zero point 2 4 6 9 0 9 0 6 2 0 1 2 5.
That's it.
So I just wanted to point that out in case you might be thinking that the precision will be know magically
start increasing once you increase your precisions.
Can't you know your context precision.
All right.
Thanks for watching.
And in the next video we're going to look at the code for all this stuff.
See you in a bit.